Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2020-09-01T09:54:13-05:00

====== CH1 DBMS Sql ======
Created Tuesday 01 September 2020

SELECT
	attribute list

FROM
	table list
	If you have multiple tables in the from statement, it will make a carteision product of all those tables
	AVOID MULTI TABLE FROM STATEMENTS

WHERE
	co\ndition

EXISTS
	checks whether the the result of a correlated nested query is empty

NULL

JOIN

GROUPBY
	grouping attribute(s)

HAVING
	group condition
	
ORDER BY 
	attribute list

DROP TABLE

CREATE TABLE

INSERT INTO
	group name
	INSERT INTO EMPLOYEE VALUES ('Richard, 'K', Marini, '...)
	
DISTINCT
	eliminates duplicates. 
	SELECT DISTINCT SALARY FROM EMPLOYEE
	removes duplicates in salary.
	
UNION
	union operator
	
INTERSECT
	intersect operator

CONTAINMENT
	subset operator
	
	EXCEPT
		Anything not in B, that is in A

MINUS




all statements end with ';'




OO have a string mathematical basis
Relational does not
RDBMS:
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. It is a database management system based on the relational model i.e. the data and relationships are represented by a collection of inter-related tables. It is a DBMS that enables the user to create, update, administer and interact with a relational database. RDBMS is the basis for SQL, and for all modern database systems like MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft Access.

OODBMS:
OODBMS stands for Object-Oriented Database Management System. It is a DBMS where data is represented in the form of objects, as used in object-oriented programming. OODB implements object-oriented concepts such as classes of objects, object identity, polymorphism, encapsulation, and inheritance. An object-oriented database stores complex data as compared to relational database. Some examples of OODBMS are Versant Object Database, Objectivity/DB, ObjectStore, Caché and ZODB.



keys are constraints cna be used toreference the tuple from another tuple
Relational database schema
	a set of S of relation schemas that belong to the same database
	S is the name of the whole database schemas

The database is a set of relations

Entity integrity
	the primary key attributes PK of each relation schema R in S cannot have null values in any tuple of r(R)
		can't have nulls
		primary key values are used to identify the individual tuples
		
Referentail integrity
	constraint involving two relations.
		the previous contstrainsts involve a single relation.
	Used to specify a relatinship among tuplesin two relations:
		The referencing relation and the referenced relation.
	Tuples in the referencing relation R1 have attriabutes FK that reference the primary key atrtributes PK of the referenced relation
	
	
Populated database state
	each relatin wil have many tupels in its current relation state
	INSERT a new tuples in a relation
	DELETE an existing tuple form a relation
	UPDATE an attribute of an existing tuple
		incase of integrity violation, several actiona can be taken
			cancel the operation that causes the violation
			perform the operation but inform the user of the violation
			trigger additional updates so the violation is corrected

{{./pasted_image.png}}

